90% of the battle is trying
to just wrap our heads
around the dance between
the two process models, right?
And I would say that maybe five or
six years ago,
four years ago,
that was maybe 50% of the battle.
That said, there is a little bit
more security posture than there was
back then and a lot more protecting
bad actors, so on and so forth.
When you can run all of Node in
the browser, that's fine and
great until you start pulling in
a third party script off a CDN or
even your own script off of a CDN.
It could just say like fs.rightfile or
something along those lines, right?
So you can circumvent all
of the security things and
you shouldn't and I'm not gonna
talk that much about it, Mark.
>> Does it handle auto updates?
Maybe you answered it, but missed it.
>> So you can handle auto updates.
You need to be running a server
that has those updates, right?
So what they're gonna talk about is
regular Electron out of the box,
it's kind of agnostic around that.
Electron Forge, which is, I would say,
not dissimilar to Create React app or
what have you for Electron and it wires
up like Webpack and all of these things.
Does support Squirrel,
which is kind of the app updater
you've seen and
loved throughout your entire life.
You do need to wire up a server
that pushes out those updates.
There are some libraries that
will use GitHub actions and
GitHub releases to try
to help you with it.
Some of that becomes specific
to how you wanna release it.
The other option for all these things, of
course, is there is nothing stopping you.
There is the built-in capabilities for
both in-app purchases in, for
instance, the Mac App Store, as well as
using the Mac App Store Writ Large for
pushing out your updates.
So those are all possible and doable.
And they do involve standing up at
least a server to say what the most
recent update is and
stuff along those lines.
And if you use Electron Forge,
the ability to check for those updates,
download those updates is built-in, right?
You just need to set up
the server at that point, so yes.
So yeah, like I said, 90% of the battle
when building Electron applications, and
90% of our focus today is going to be just
understanding how to communicate between
these processes.
But I think if we're gonna do that,
we should talk about the two, right?
And so I kind of said, hey, we've got
Node and we've got Chromium, right?
The term of art in Electron
is the main process versus
the renderer processes, right?
And ideally, that should probably already
fit into a certain mental model on which
one is Node and
which one is the browser, right?
And also, you can see when I said the main
process versus renderer processes,
you can get a sense of how
many of each there are.
Now, you don't necessarily
need more than one, right, but
you might have more than one, right?
And so for most of apps we're gonna build
today, we're gonna keep it relatively
simple, which is we got a main process
that spins up a renderer process.
But there's nothing stopping you if
you think about VS Code, where you
might have multiple windows open, right,
that has multiple renderer processes.
In the same way that in Chrome,
every single one of your tabs
is its own process, right?
And they're isolated
from the other processes.
That is true in your Electron app as well.
You could spin up multiple, yeah, you
can have multiple different files open.
You could do any of these things.
They are essentially
separate processes and
they're kind of the main process
is what ties them all together.
The main process can spin up these,
they can take them down,
they can also close themselves,
so on and so forth.
The main process is that it is not wrong
to think about it like a server, right?
It is that model that we have as front
end engineers of our client side code,
which maybe is running across
many of our users' browsers.
Yes, I understand how microservices work,
or one server, right,
that they talk to, right?
That model, that mental framework, is not
wrong when thinking about Electron apps.
I think it's a decent
heuristic in this case.
Like I said before, back in the day,
this is a screenshot from the last version
of this course, you could literally just
pull in Node in the renderer process.
Can you do this?
Yes, do you have to opt
into it since Electron 12?
And to be clear, at the time of this
recording, we're on Electron 26.
One thing I should note, though,
is that the numbers go very fast nowadays,
not because there are breaking changes,
that it's SemVer per se.
It is based on a cadence of Chromium and
Node releases, right?
And so in a lot of cases,
if you go from Node 18 to 20 per se,
there might not be any breaking
changes in the Electron API.
You're just bumping up a version of
Node or a version of Chromium or
something along those lines.
And so there's a rhythm and
a cadence to that.
So I think for a while, there was
forever before you hit Electron 1, and
then years before Electron 2.
Now it's kind of on that you don't
necessarily think, I mean, you do think
a little about what version of Node,
but it is less of a turn on that one.
So we are on at the time of
this recording Electron 26,
which came out earlier this week.
From 12 forward, just letting you do
whatever you wanted to someone's computer
from a browser context that could load
arbitrary code is now frowned upon.
I will make one illusion at one
point on how to opt out of that,
and then I will never talk about
it again because it's a bad idea.
And it's better to just learn
how to do it correctly.
But if it's a quick and dirty thing you're
just running on your own, sure, go for it,
have at it.
But nowadays,
we do need to figure out how to talk
to the main process back and forth.
And so IPC or inter-process communication
is gonna be the big way that
we do that over our time together,
and we'll be doing it a lot.
There's various different
ways to interact with it.
The other kind of new thing since the last
time we talked about Electron together is
these preloaded scripts.
Before, there was just the main
process and the renderer process.
In terms of process model,
that's totally true, right?
But you do need a little
help getting some stuff from
the main process into the browser context.
So you have this preload script, which
exists in the renderer process, right?
And it's in a place that kind
of before the DOM loads,
before you load in any
third party scripts,
before you do anything that might in any
way interact with the outside world.
A place to kinda set up an allow list,
what different kind of interactions
you wanna have with the main process.
And then that is kind of you can
expose just the very few things.
It's kind of the regular security
principle of least access, right?
So as much as you need,
as little as you can get away with.
So you're gonna expose the very small set
of things that your renderer processes
need access to in order to talk
to the main process, right?
Those happen in a preload script.
That is technically part
of the renderer process, so
it's not an additional
process beyond that.
It is just like a one last
stop before we go into
what is normally a full
browser environment, right?
And we get a bunch of ways to just make
sure that we are isolating just what you
need, and then those are exposed.
And then we use those to communicate
back and forth with the main process.